---
title: 'Dahshu Webinar: In Search of Effective and Reproducible Clinical Imaging Biomarkers for Population Health and Oncology Applications of Screening, Diagnosis and Prognosis'
author: ''
date: '2021-08-20T09:00:00-07:00'
slug: in-search-of-effective-and-reproducible-clinical-imaging-biomarkers-for-population-health-and-oncology-applications-of-screening-diagnosis-and-prognosis
categories: []
tags: []
type: webinar
url_register: ~
url_freeregister: https://dahshu.wildapricot.org/event-4435730
url_slides: ~
url_video: no
url_agenda: ~
url_website: ~
url_audio: ~
url_code: ~
url_pdf: ~
date_end: '2021-08-20T10:00:00-07:00'
all_day: no
publishDate: '2021-08-10T10:57:53-07:00'
authors: []
featured: no
image:
  caption: ''
  focal_point: ''
  preview_only: no
slides: ''
projects: []
location: ~
address:
  street: ~
  city: ~
  region: ~
  postcode: ~
  country: ~
summary: ~
abstract: ~
speaker: Le Lu (PAII Inc.)
---
<!--more-->
This talk describes a roadmap on three key problems in pancreatic cancer imaging solution: early screening, precision differential diagnosis, and deep prognosis on patient survival prediction. (1) Based on a new self-learning framework, we train the pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) segmentation model using a larger quantity of patients (≈1,000, four institutions), with a mix of annotated/unannotated venous or multi-phase CT images. Pseudo annotations are generated by combining two teacher models with different PDAC segmentation specialties on unannotated images, and can be further refined by a teaching assistant model that identifies associated vessels around the pancreas. Our approach makes it technically feasible for robust large-scale PDAC screening from multi-institutional multi-phase partially-annotated CT scans. (2) We propose a holistic segmentation-mesh classification network (SMCN) to provide patient-level diagnosis, by fully utilizing the geometry and location information. SMCN learns the pancreas and mass segmentation task and builds an anatomical correspondence-aware organ mesh model by progressively deforming a pancreas prototype on the raw segmentation mask. Our results are comparable to a multimodality clinical test that combines clinical, imaging, and molecular testing for clinical management of patients with cysts. (3) Accurate preoperative prognosis of resectable PDACs for personalized treatment is highly desired in clinical practice. We present a novel deep neural network for the survival prediction of resectable PDAC patients, 3D Contrast-Enhanced Convolutional Long Short-Term Memory network (CE-ConvLSTM), to derive the tumor attenuation signatures from CE-CT imaging studies. Our framework can significantly improve the prediction performances upon existing state-of-the-art survival analysis methods. This deep tumor signature has evidently added values (as a predictive biomarker) to be combined with the existing clinical staging system.